okay um so this time I'll be talking
about attention um some of this is is
similar to what was written in the
materials and there I'd like people I'll
just summarize quickly and have people
ask questions if anything was unclear a
lot of this stuff is new the reason why
this is new is because since I created
those materials six months ago a lot of
stuff has changed in in neural networks
for NLP so there's a lot of a lot of new
materials so as I talked about before we
have decent coder decoder models where
we have the encoder and the decoder and
they basically kind of pass their
information through this state over here
which we hope will contain all the
information about the source sentence
but as Ray Mooney says you can't cram
the meaning of a whole bleeping sentence
into a single bleeping vector and but
what if we could use multiple vectors
based on the length of the sentence so
if we have if we don't have this but
instead he have this then this would be
better so that's the general idea of
attention which I think you read about
in the in the course materials another
way to think about it which I might have
talked about in front of a lot of people
in this room but maybe not everybody is
if you think about asking a translator
to go and translate a sentence and say
please read this whole sentence remember
it and then translate it that's very
difficult for them to do but if you tell
them you can read this sentence and then
you can go along and translate while
rereading various parts of the sentence
that's a lot easier for them to do and
that's that's basically what attention
is doing it's allowing you to look back
at the sentence every time you translate
the word so the way attention where it's
the basic idea is we encode each word in
the sentence into a vector so in 1d
coding we perform a linear combination
of these vectors weighted by attention
weights
and we use this combination and picking
the next word so an example of this is
let's say we have our source up here
this is these are our source and
sentence encodings may be run through a
bi-directional Alice TM or something
like that then on the bottom left we
have we have the Dakotas so and this is
our current state and then maybe we need
to want to decide which word comes after
hate and then we have a something called
a query vector and then we also have key
vectors which are these things up here
this is different notation than i used
in the materials the reading materials
but i really actually like this notation
quite a bit so i'll be using it for the
rest of explanation in these slides so
basically we have a whole bunch of keys
we can kind of think of it as a database
or something like that where we have
keys that we use to query and try to
find or we use a query we tried to
locate keys that match this query and
then based on that for each query key
pair we calculate a weight we run these
two vectors through some function and
get weights these can be any real number
basically and then we normalize these to
add to 1 using the softmax function so
then once we do this we get things
between 0 & 1 in the end of the one um
these are basically a they look like a
probability but attention is not really
a probabilistic variable it's more just
it's a deterministic variable but it's
normalized to look like a probability
between 0 & 1 & 1 and I'll talk more
about that later
when I talk about other varieties but
that's one thing to remember so then
once we do that we we wait all of the
vectors um we can also call these
vectors value vectors
so these vectors are the vectors that
we're going to want to wait together and
in combined into a single vector you'll
notice I used a different name for these
two which I didn't do in the reading
materials so in the original attentional
model the key vectors and the value
vectors were both the encoding z' of the
source but there's no reason why they
need to be you could be you could also
use different ones and some recent work
has used different vectors for these two
specifically one one paper that I'm
going to talk about in detail later and
then you can basically use this
attention in any part of the model you
like there's no restriction to how you
use this this weighted attention thing
here it's very common to feed it back
into the decoder it's also very common
to use it to make your prediction of the
next word or action or whatever and here
is a graphical example so this example
this is an example of translating
Japanese into English so you have a
weighting over the over the Japanese and
every time you translate a word into
English you get something basically that
adds to one where white is the brighter
one and then four could you recommend
it's focusing on the Japanese word for
recommend in inexpensive it's focusing
on the Japanese word for inexpensive and
then restaurant it's focusing on the
word for restaurant um there was also a
part in the reading materials and
attention score functions um I'm going
to overview them here because I'm also
going to introduce a new one that was
proposed recently that wasn't including
in the included in the materials but
seems to make a lot of sense to me so
here Q is the query and K is the key and
the kind of original way of doing this
is the multi-layer perceptron where we
we concatenate the query and key
together we run them through one layer
of a neural net
and then we multiply this by a vector to
get a scalar for each for each word here
my personal experience with this is that
this is flexible it's also tends to be
very good it's usually the best or it's
very often the best option when you have
lots of training data of the various
methods that I've tried the second one
is bilinear so basically the idea here
is we multiply we multiply K by a weight
matrix and take the dot product with Q
this has been proposed and some people
have some people have used this before
but I don't see this being used widely
in sequence of sequence models and I
myself have not gotten as good results
with this this others then another one
is the dot product where we simply take
the dot product of these two um this has
no parameters which is a good thing
especially if we're training with very
few data but it also requires the sizes
of the vectors Q and K to be the same
which means we kind of have to restrict
our models so that this is the case my
oh so my personal experience with this
is this works pretty well when you have
small data but as you get to larger data
or larger networks it doesn't do as well
as a multi-layer perceptron method here
but there's one explanation for this
which was just proposed in this in this
paper recent paper this is the scale
that product function and basically the
problem of the of the scaled dot product
of the regular dot product is as the
dimensions get bigger the value of the
drive also tends to bigger right so if
we have the same range of values for
each vector of 128 x 128 versus a vector
of 256 x 256 the dot product of this
will tend to be twice as big right
now if we think about what happens if we
think about what happens and we have
scores of one to zero versus scores of
two four zero coming into our attention
after we take the softmax what this is
going to look like is this is going to
look like something like zero point Q
five 0.7 0.5 0.05 so it's kind of going
to be focused on the middle one but not
very sharply but if we double this this
is going to become zero point nine zero
point zero nine zero point zero one or
something like this so um these numbers
I completely made up these numbers these
actual numbers but the idea is if you
have a bigger scale and you're in the
inputs to your softmax you're going to
get a much p key or distribution and
this is something that you need to be
aware of in general so the idea of the
scale dot product is that the dot
product will suffer from differences in
how it behaves be based on the network
size so the way they fix this is just by
scaling by the size of the vector so if
you look at the size of the vector K the
they reduce this value by the square
root of the the size of that vector and
I have not actually tried this myself
because I just write about it about a
month ago and I haven't done this but
this seems like it makes a lot of sense
so I think this is one attractive
alternative to multi-layer perceptron
with no parameters so are there any are
there any questions so far
I think a lot of this was in the reading
materials except the last but um
if not we'll we'll start out with our
our code lock thing which Dan
I mean this is very much based on this
is very much based on the the code walk
from last time
that's too big yeah you go here press
escape
so yeah is this big enough for everyone
to see in the back you can see okay cool
um so for attention about it it's going
to look the same as the encoder decoder
that Grimm said and this time we're just
doing batch detention because this law
has to her and after you've already seen
the encoder decoder nom batch to batch
there's really no reason to look at the
non batch
attention so you've gotten all the data
do the same thing for batching as
previously then you have a few more
parameters you have the size of the
attention parameters and in this case
we're doing the multi-layer perceptron
score function for our attention so if
we come over to tell us what was covered
the first um one other difference is
instead of using just single Direction
rule LSTA like we did in the encoder
decoder raising the biology on over the
short sentence so
you run the Ellis team over the
sentences and you concatenate the
forwards and backwards representations
of the output from the bi-directional
STM you feed that into then you can use
this to start trying to calculate the
comment from the attention this is fixed
attentional component and the source
output matrix are both going to be used
so click the doors then the rest of this
here is pretty much the same up until
you get to the decoder this this is
actually really this is a really nice
trick so if you remember one of the
efficiency tricks that was mentioned
when Taylor Taylor guess the class
is that we want to cache or we want to
do as few operations as possible
and what we're doing here is basically
when we do the multi-layer perceptron
attention we take in this source and
then we are we taken the 16 and we also
take in equerry this is maybe w1 w2 and
then we run this through at any
instruction I think you're fishing this
right oh yeah those try yeah so the this
thing here the key only depends on the
source it doesn't depend on decoding the
target or what your next target is so
basically you can cache this at the very
beginning of processing the sentence and
this will make things much faster um so
the alternative would be to recalculate
this every time you decoded something in
the output but that would be this is a
big calculation here so that would be
inefficient and by doing this you can do
this significantly more if you are
interested in this in making
you can take a look so you start to
decode the sentence more or less the
same as the in Puerto Rico model except
for when you get the output of each step
from the decoder you're going to do
attention instead of simply using
fitting mr. softmax and getting the
maximum word so for attention now we're
going to come back up here and look at
the multi-layer perceptron um so these
are the three parameters for attention
essentially what Gramps that here we're
really touched this here which is query
in the word and this gives us the output
from that so you can simply take the
softmax over that to get the alignment
on this was the series of squares you
the output from the attentional system
which we're going to use to calculate
the final what I do the final talk max
so back down to when we're running
through the sentences we get the output
in the alignment I'm saving the
alignment so we can visualize it at the
end then you run this through when we're
I guess one thing to note is when we're
doing this the output is going to be not
quite the same size as that in there so
to make it the same size we first feed
it through an affine transformation to
get this middle expression which makes
it the same size of the head later then
we can feed it through the same affine
transformation we use an encoder decoder
to cross the final portion to pass
through the softmax
we two picnic log top necks and in this
trans as normal
um generating is similar except it's not
what generation yeah here so um we get
the output then we're doing the same
masking as we did before for fetching
where you multiply the mask by each of
the sentences to delete all the padding
you put on the input sentences then for
generation we don't have that instead
recently choose the art max over all the
properties of words in a sentence um
then finally I also included a bit all
function to plot attention so this gives
us the diagrams that Graham was showing
earlier or something close to that
so after you're done training you can
save your attentional matrices plot the
attention and look at how they're
aligning the words in the sentences
questions I wanted to add that I I tried
plotting the attention
I tried plotting the attention for this
and it doesn't look very good I think
it's because our training data is
extremely small so probably don't you
can try to plot the attention but it
will probably look pretty bad just
because the train data is not large
enough but if you use it with larger
training data it should it should work
okay and any other questions about this
okay
so I will I will continue yeah
um so the the intuition the intuition
behind the naming is basically you can
think of it one another way you can
think of it it's like a relational
database where you have a query which is
like select X from Y where the very
actually let you rename this and select
B from
[Music]
select a B from where so um we have this
database where we have key value pairs
and we're selected we're selecting once
where the key matches the query but
attention is kind of like a song select
it's not selecting with a what 0 1 value
it's selecting based on a kind of like
soft matching between the key and the
query and then you add everything
together so I think the intuition behind
why we named on these ways is because
why these have been named these ways is
because from this disease
I know the query is the decoder state
the reduced value is the result of the
attention it's a often called like a
context vector or something like that
that is it's just well because it's top
product they have to be the same size so
you don't if you normalized by it's as
simple as that
yeah so a memory network is very similar
to a 2 attention a memory Network
there's multiple types of memory
networks so it's really difficult to say
exactly what the relationship is because
but basically the idea of a memory
Network in kind of the original papers
is you have this really really big thing
that you want to do attention over but
you have many of the values in your
attention to be 0 so it's kind of like
it's kind of like sparse attention I
guess we are where only some of the
values are nonzero in the original paper
but there might be you know there's also
fully differentiable memory networks and
other things like that
so as I said there's so many varieties
of memory networks it's kind of hard to
answer that question
sure so attention can work for anything
actually I'm going to give a lot of
examples so maybe I'll wait until after
the example is to answer that okay I'll
move on to the next one so that's
exactly what I'm going to talk about
next hopefully it will be clear um so
there's a lot of different things that
we can attend to there's a lot of
different things that we can pay
attention to the most common one by far
is attending to something like an input
sentence so that was exactly what I used
in the previous explanation we have an
input that we would like to translate
into something else it's we can attend
to this it's also very common to use the
attention more directly over the input
sentence in one way you can do that is
with unknown word replacement which I
mentioned in the in the in the reading
materials basically the idea here is
then there's a thing that takes it a
step further and uses it not just for
unknown word replacement for you but
actually for copying words directly into
the output so the idea is that you have
either a generate mode which is on the
left side where you can generate the
left side of the top right of this slide
which is where you generate normally
like you would in a normal a normal
sequence of sequence model then the one
on the right is a thing where you can
basically copy a word from the source so
why would this be useful let's say you
want to do summarization if you want to
do summarization the great majority of
the words are going to be the same as
the words that were in the source and
because of the because of this you would
really like to have the ability to copy
words directly from the source and use
them in the another one we we have a
paper where we extended this a little
bit to make it so you can't
where you don't only copy but you can
also basically translate words that are
in a lexicon and this is pretty this is
pretty useful if you have like a
dictionary of words that you want to be
translating or something like this
there's so these are a couple examples
of how you can use attention to kind of
copy words or make a more direct
connection between the sources part so
what other things can you attend to
another one is previously generated
things so what I mean by this is let's
say you're generating something from a
language model you can think that
because I've already generated a word
once I'm very likely to generate it
again so if you think about it
intuitively I've said attention about
maybe 50 times today right so because I
generated attention already you know
that I'm probably going to say it again
and going to continue to say it many
many times so the idea here is basically
that once you've generated a word you
attend to that word you attend to the
words you've previously generated and
decide whether you want to copy them or
not so this is kind of an extension
extension or a different variant of the
of the copying mechanism that I just
explained before um you could also use
this for translation or dialogue
generation if you wanted to as well
one thing to be a little bit cautious
about this is this is also known this
was also known as a cache model before
neural networks before neural networks
were widely used in language modeling
and cache models basically you remember
words you already generated and generate
them again these seem to give you
extremely good perplexities because it
makes are extremely good language model
evaluation scores because they give you
words you've generated already but when
you actually try to incorporate them
into a speech recognition system or
something else what happens is you make
a mistake once then you make the same
mistake over and over and over again
because you've remembered that mistakes
so um just because you see good
perplexity numbers from a model like
this doesn't mean they'll actually be
useful in a in real systems
so another thing I'm you can also attend
to either the you can attend to both the
input and the previous output so if
you've already
if you've already generated some output
you can also do attention over the
output that you've already generated um
this is not directly copying this here
this is instead just attending to the
words you've already generated this
might be even more useful and in a way
this will help you precisely remember
what you've already generated and then
use that information when you generate
the next words yeah yeah yeah yeah
um so for the for the second work here
that's definitely possible for the first
work this is more focusing on copying
previous words so for the first one that
would probably be more of a problem than
the second one where it can learn to be
more flexible I guess but the problem is
the problem is which I'll talk about
next time is if you're only training
correct output all repetitions will be
correct repetitions right but if you're
training if you're actually working in a
place where you might have made a
mistake before you'll also learn to
repeat the mistakes so we used to fix
that we'll talk about next classes so
you can also attend to various
modalities it's very it's very common to
attend to other things images is one
example in fact when you attempt two
images you get these very beautiful like
heat maps over the image showing you
which part of the image you are
attending to and you can say a bird
flying over a body of water where you
can see it's focusing on the bird to
generate it's also common to attend
other things like speech if you're
interested in speech one of the
interesting things when you're doing
things with speech is that speech often
has lots and lots of frames and you kind
of need to reduce or speech utterances
tend to be very long and you kind of
need to reduce the length of them and
there's a lot of tricks that you can use
to kind of reduce the length when you're
doing attention um one thing I should
mention is that attention doesn't work
if you have or at least without a lot of
work it doesn't work when you have a
really long sequence because every time
you have this quadratic every time you
need to process basically everything in
the input sequence so one place where
you might not want to use attention is
when you have a really long sequence
that you'd like to summarize and then
process process efficiently
that being said reasonably length
sequences and once we see an NLP are
usually okay but even if you want to go
from
like words the characters for example
this is something that you need to you
need to think about you can also attend
to hierarchical structures so this is an
example of a paper where they do
document classification where basically
you encode the the words first you
encode the words of each sentence first
did a representation for that sentence
and then encode then encode the
representation of each sentence another
way you could probably do this is by
using a similar style of kind of
reduction of the lengths like they use
in speech or for characters or something
like that but this one is doing it
sentence by sentence and the sentence
level which seems to make maybe more
sense from the point of view of coherent
semantic units um another interesting
thing is that you can attend to multiple
sources so let's say you have two
varieties of information that you would
like to attend to one example of this is
let's say you wanted to translate from
French and German into English this
doesn't seem like it would be a
situation that comes up very often but
if you think about it there are things
like TED Talks that have already been
translated into 20 languages but you
always want to add one more language and
this and in this case you could attend
to all 20 languages when you generate
your output to get the twenty first
language and that's actually a pretty
realistic scenario there was a nice
paper recently that compared multiple
strategies for using for using the this
multi source attention the interesting
thing is they actually did something
like this hierarchical where you you
basically attend to one sentence in one
language another sentence in another
language then you attend to the vectors
that you got from attention and that's
going to work best for them in this
particular task
another example is let's say you want to
translate let's say you want to do
translation but you also have a context
where you a visual context so you can
imagine an interpreter walking through
walking through a real-life scenario
where you know they're looking around
and they can use the information that
they see the visual information to help
them translate more accurately um this
particular paper allows you to do this
I'm not actually familiar with the
dialogue literature but it seems very
natural to also do something like this
for dialogues so you know in dialogue
you're grounded you could be in a
specific scenario or something like that
so then you would want to attend to the
things you see in addition to what the
pretty what the previous person talked
about one other thing that I'm going to
I'm going to talk about in a bit of
detail later is intra attention or self
attention the these are two names
basically for the same thing the idea
here is that each element in the
sentence attends to the other of other
elements so why would you want to do
this the reason why you might be
interested in doing this is let's say we
have this as an example on what we can
do is we can basically when we calculate
the embedding for this we can attend to
all the other embeddings in the sentence
um when we calculate the embedding for
is we attend to all the other embeddings
in the sentence and the same example
like this so these are exactly the same
sentence but basically what they're
doing is they're learning to be context
sensitive as opposed to context
insensitive
um this might look like something else
that you've heard about before does
anybody have know what this sounds
like alignment um it's like alignment
but this time we're actually looking at
the same word so attention is like
alignment in the way also um any other
ideas
what's it oh oh this is this is
different in goal from the mirror do you
think the the paper on I'm basically
attending to yourself when generating
the next word the idea behind that was
to make the prediction of the next word
more accurate this one is to add some
context to the word is betting space any
other ideas
we're Tyvek um yeah you you could think
of it that way that this is really
interesting these are not the not the
answers I was expecting but it's they're
good answers so weird effect also is
looking at the context around it and
using it for prediction and trying to
match the context together yeah yeah so
convolution is a similar idea that the
one I was actually aiming for was if you
think about a bi bi-directional LS TM
for the if you think about what we use a
bi-directional lsdm for and the
attention
basically that's to incorporate word
information about the surrounding words
into your word embeddings so this is
doing something very similar it's
incorporating information about the
surrounding words in your word
embeddings the main difference here is
that there's I guess two differences one
is that this is much more direct because
you're looking at the word embeddings
for all of the word remaining words in
the sentence directly instead of taking
lots of steps through a recurrent neural
network the other reason why it's a
little bit different is this is way way
faster because you can do this with like
a single matrix multiply which is super
fast compared to running in lsdm over
your entire sentence
um okay so let me go back to answering
the question about how does this relate
to other NLP tasks basically you can use
attention in any like you can use
attention in almost anything where you
have a sequence and you would like to
use that sequence to make some sort of
prediction one example of this is you
can use attention in parsing so you take
in a you take in a sentence and then you
want to generate its parse tree so you
generate its parse tree one by one by
taking an Open bracket every time you
open a constituent close bracket every
time you close a constituent and then
the word every time you generate a word
you can do it
you can use it for lots of lots of other
tasks as well but basically anytime
within a particular context you want to
find the appropriate things to focus on
in the input sentence you can use some
sort of attention mechanism in your
model and it's probably the case that
somebody has has tried that for most
major tasks does that answer the
question there yeah um so basically you
could think about yeah I don't actually
have any ambiguous word in here but if I
had added an ambiguous word like Bank um
if you think about Bank Bank will
basically be they have a different sense
based on the other words in the sentence
right so if you have money or
corporation or something like that Bank
will probably be the financial bank but
if you have river or something like that
it will be it will be a river big um so
what it could do is basically it could
learn what it learns you betting for
bank it will put 50% of the weight on
bank or maybe 60% of the weight on bank
and then 30% of the way down river and
then the linear interpolation of River
and Bank will become the embedding for
that word for downstream process
so yeah that's the idea of you yeah um
it doesn't mean - so you could have a
recurrent layer before you do this or
you could have no recurrent layer
actually the case study I'm going to
talk about at the end uses no recurrence
whatsoever and it still can do
interesting things that's a good point
I'll talk about that later yeah yeah
yeah basically in the end you will need
a single vector one way you can get the
vector is just by contaminating the two
vectors so let's say you did a tension
over a French and attention over German
you could just concatenate the two
vectors you could add them together or
you could do something like hierarchical
tension where you do attention over
those vectors and decide which one to
use so there's lots of different ways to
do it and that's what the middle paper
there is done okay so I will move on um
there's a bunch of ways that people have
proposed to improve attention in some
way or another these are you might want
to use them depending on your task
vanilla like regular attention works
pretty well so you might not necessarily
need to have any of these but all of
them kind of make sense
so which is why I decided to introduce
them here um the first thing that a lot
of people have noted is that neural
models when they're not trained very
well or when they're tested on words
that don't or test it on sentences that
don't match the training data very well
they tend to drop or repeat content so
you get these translations where
basically you have this long sentence
translated into three words or you have
a sentence where you repeat the word
nice to meet you you you you you you you
you you over and over and over again so
coverage models basically model how many
times the words have been covered
there's a bunch of ways to do this um
I think maybe the first way was proposed
by Cohen at all and the idea here is
that assuming that we're doing a task
like translation in translation we can
assume that most of the words will be
covered one time will be translated one
time especially if we're doing something
like English to another very similar
language so what they did was basically
they added an additional loss term that
said if each word and the source isn't
translated about once you pay a penalty
so this is a way to train the model to
try to enforce this constraint another
way to do this is adding embeddings
indicating how many times you've covered
a particular word um so basically you
just add some other stuff into the model
and this will this will allow you to
figure out how many times you've covered
something um which one should you use
the first one doesn't increase your
parameters at all so that's probably a
good thing but this won't work for
anything where we don't expect each word
to be basically output one time about
one time so this probably wouldn't work
for dialogue generation for example
because dialogue has will have greatly
varying lengths another thing you can do
is incorporating a Markov property and
basically the idea here is that the
attention from last time tends to be
correlated from the attention this time
so if you look at this example here
you can see that it attempted to the
same word three times in a row and
attended to the same word two times in a
row
and with same word two times aggro so
the idea is basically you use
information about what it attended to
last time when making the next attention
decision um there's a bunch of different
ways you can do this
this paper investigates one and there
are others as well like actually I
didn't add this to the references but
there was a thing on recurrent attention
where basically you train a recurrent
neural network to learn this for you um
another kind of interesting thing is
bi-directional training so you basically
train cue models um one model from I
guess this is Estonian to English and
one model from English to Estonian and
then you make it pay a penalty every
time it doesn't match so this penalty is
a penalty over the trace of the of the
matrix-multiply here so what this is
saying basically is if things in the
same position in these two and these two
matrices look about the same you get a
you get a bonus if you have very
different matrices for these two then
you don't get a bonus this is this
worked really well in this particular
paper but this requires you to train two
models one model in each direction at
the same time so that's a bit of a pain
um you can also do supervised training
so the idea behind this is we get some
gold standard alignments in advance so
we can either have somebody manually
annotate our data set with proper
correct alignments or let's say we have
some strong alignment model maybe maybe
we know that we have a model that tends
to give us better alignments and we get
from our attention then we can use these
this alignment model to kind of bias
bias what we do is we measure the
difference between the attention in the
alignment yeah
but one important thing to remember um
this is something that I hadn't seen
written in a research paper before until
this paper just very recently but it's
something that almost everybody who's
used intentional model and visualize the
results is noticed but basically
attention is not in alignment between
the words don't expect attention to look
like alignment one example of this is
attention is often kind of blurred all
over the place you might see that it's
attending to basically nothing this is
especially true when it's doing
something like generating a word that
has no direct that doesn't correspond to
anything directly in the input so if
you're generating a function word in
translation often there will be no
function word in the input that matches
this another example would be dialog
generation where you're generating you
know probably dialogue generation will
give you very fuzzy alignments all the
time because there's not a very strong
correspondence between individual words
and input and output another thing is
attention is also very often off by one
so this is a beautiful example of this
the blue ones are correct the green ones
are what the attention actually picked
um does anyone know why this is why this
happens
[Music]
right so I think the initialization
might have something to do with it but I
think the the second answer which was
that some the when we have an encoder
particularly a bi-directional RNN
encoder the each of the states has
already seen all of the words in the
sentence it's just which one happens to
be closer so if you have an encoder over
over a CD the state here who's still
seen information from B through its
forward encoding so there's not a really
really strong motivation for it to get
it get attention directly on on the word
itself but it might get it one off like
this so yeah this is something important
to remember so just because like let's
say you did supervised training of
course you'll get a much higher
alignment accuracy from your attention
level but you might not necessarily get
better translations because yeah yeah
and the reason why is because recurrent
neural networks don't just randomly like
put information all over the sentence
they like to put information closer to
where they got the information so it
probably won't be 10 off it'll probably
be one offer or directly that's a good
question there are papers saying that it
has helped I have run experiments where
it didn't help very much so it depends
on how hard you try I guess yeah maybe
so I don't know supervised training
helps I have not gotten it to help
myself but a few other people have so
yeah
um yeah that there are ways that you can
do that I don't um there were ways that
you would do that in original alignment
models but I don't think there are I am
not miss that would not necessarily be
diagonal directly that would enforce
local consistency but it might still be
able to make big jobs but yeah I'll have
to get back to you on that I think there
might be but I can't come up with one
off the top of my head um so there's
also a few specialized varieties of
attention that you might want to know
about if you if you're doing something
related to these things so one is heart
attention
the idea of heart attention is that
instead of doing soft interpolation make
a zero one decision about what you're
attending to one thing to note is that
this is much harder to train because you
basically have zero one decisions which
are not differentiable and it requires
methods such as reinforcement learning
or something else like that
um one kind of neat example of this I
don't think anybody has shown that this
works better or that this works a whole
lot better than a comparable soft
attentional model but one thing it might
be able to give you is interpretability
so this is a neat paper where basically
they they use heart attention to
highlight phrases in a document that
were useful in making a decision so this
is a beer review that allowed where it
tries to predict the look of the beer
and it says a very pleasant ruby red
amber color and this was used to predict
the look so even if heart attentional
models haven't given a huge gain and you
know many standard tasks it's still
pretty useful here um so this is a one
zero one decision but it's not
necessarily they're not taking this off
max here they're actually taking a
sigmoid I think um which allows you to
attend to all the words or numbers yeah
um another thing is monotonic attention
this might be something to think about
if you're if you're doing something
where we basically have things that are
in the same order and the source and
target so for example speech recognition
is you know always the phonemes are in
the same order is the input speech you
can also think of something like
incremental translation where you
translate parts of the sentence at once
morphological inflection this is where
you conjugate a word into another word
this is usually monotonic but not always
summarization also is usually monotonic
but not always so you end up getting
something that looks like this this is a
model that combines this one I'm citing
here is a model that combines monotonic
attention with heart attention so there
you get kind of a thing that walks
through the sentence in order this is
for a morphological inflection but they
have some nice examples from
summarization in their paper ELLs
there's also convolutional attention so
this is um an idea that is not maybe not
what you thought about at first so
normally when you heard convolutional
attention you might think that you were
doing a convolutional Network and then
doing attention over that convolutional
Network this is actually a different
idea and the idea is basically that when
you decide to tension you also use
information about the surrounding words
so this makes a lot of sense if let's
say you wanted to do something where you
wanted to identify you wanted to answer
questions about people and you might
know that mister something is very
often a person the idea here is that
when you make your convolution this when
you make your attention decision you
also look at the neighboring words so
you can say I want to attend to a word
that's one next to mr. yeah the context
sensitive word embeddings to capture
that a little bit already but this is a
more direct way to take that
um whether this is necessary if you have
a very strong encoder I actually don't
know so but I thought it was a neat idea
so I thought it would be worth worth
introducing um another idea is
multi-headed attention so the idea
behind multi-headed attention is
basically that we have multiple
attention heads and each of these can
focus on a different part of the
sentence so one example of this that
kind of makes a lot of sense I guess um
this is in a code this is in basically a
summarization paper it happens to be on
code summarization where you try to
guess a try to guess a function name
from the function itself but the idea
here is that you have this copy
mechanism and then you also have a you
also have just a regular a regular
attentional model and you use a
different attention for each for the
copy mechanism which is in pink here and
the regular attentional model which is
in yellow and you can see the regular
attentional model is much more fuzzy
it's kind of focusing on the whole
function well the the copy model is much
more sharp and it's focusing explicitly
on variable names so this is - attention
heads basically it has one for the
regular attentional model one for the
kind of copy model and then there was
another paper which I'll talk about in a
second which basically does eight
attention heads and these attention
heads don't have any specific semantics
on their own they're just all kind of
independently trained and can focus on
different parts of the sentence and this
this is combined with self attention so
you can note that the start and finish
ones are the same but the interesting
thing here is that you can see some of
the attention heads are focusing on more
difficult and some of the attention
heads are focusing on making so you get
this kind of compositional T word
expression making more difficult where
each part of this is focused on by a
different attention cut um so the the
last thing I'd like to talk about is an
interesting case study this was a paper
that that came out very recently it was
accepted to nips apparently and it kind
of does a very a pretty different way of
doing sequence to sequence modeling I
think many of you have have seen this
already I've also already referenced a
bunch of the things in my in my
introduction of methods um but basically
this is a model that looks a lot like
this it has it has a bunch of layers
where layers are using this multi-headed
self attention to basically learn word
embeddings and they're using this
instead of the regular recurrent neural
network so one thing that's notable
about this is this doesn't have any
recurrent neural networks in it
whatsoever and it's just using this self
attention multi-headed self attention to
learn all the context-sensitive stuff it
also has other things like extra
feed-forward layers which I'll talk
about and also layer normalization
various stuff which I'll talk about
later a notable thing about this is it
gave really strong results on standard
machine translation of datasets and it's
super fast to train it's super fast to
train because you don't need any
recurrent neural networks and recurrent
neural networks are very slow to train
on GPUs because they require you to step
through the recurrent neural network so
this is kind of interesting um there was
a question I forgot who asked it about
how do we know about the positional
information so the way they the way they
handle positional information in this is
you add an additional embedding to each
of the words that basically is a an
encoding of its position in the sentence
so the the first word in the sentence if
it's I hate this movie you have the
embeddings for I hate in this movie but
then you also have the embeddings for
word number one word number two word
number three and you basically just add
these together to get the final
embedding you use so you get an
embedding that basically represents the
word I in position number one of the
sentence and then you can use this to
learn things like words that are in
similar positions should have more of an
effect on each other than others um this
paper is very unique in concept and it
gets very good results one thing you
should be careful about is it introduces
like a hundred different tricks um
probably all of which are important to
get your model to work really just a few
of the tricks they do is they're using
self attention like I mentioned before
they're using multi headed attention
they're using normalized that product
attention which are all things that I
introduced and then they're also using
the positional encoding and I just
mentioned here so all of these things
were kind of things that were partially
some of them were introduced in previous
papers but they kind of combined all
these together to get something that
works quite well um which is probably
also why there are seven co-authors on
this paper they they had a lot of people
working on this um they also have a
bunch of training tricks so they use
something called layer normalization
which helps ensure that layers remain in
a reasonable range now but remains in a
reasonable range they have a specialized
training schedule they use something
called label smoothing which inserts
some uncertainty in the training process
they also have a masking regimen which
allows them to do efficient training
where they basically train using the
whole sentence at once and what this
looks like is basically
instead of having a recurrent neural
network and then doing attention over
over only the source what they can do is
they basically calculate the source and
target all the same and then they have
this masking function where basically in
the first time step you only look at the
things in the source then in the second
time step you mask everything after I
then you continue adding a mask that
looks like this where basically you mask
out all of the all of the words that you
haven't already output so by doing this
you can basically multiply this masked
by the embeddings and then do your
normal operation operations in a kind of
like single big GPU operation which is
really fast to train a regular recurrent
neural network so this is a kind of neat
paper this is one of the papers that I
really liked recently so if you're if
you're interested you can look but
beware of all the training tricks and
don't think you can just go in and
implement this all by yourself in a few
days um so that's all for attention I
guess are there any questions or
discussion
I myself have have not run this I know a
lot of people who have run it and it
works quite well if you use the official
implementation I know people who have
reimplemented it and gotten it to work
but it takes a lot of work which is
which is why I'm mentioning this year I
think where we're working and
re-implementing it ourselves as well any
other questions yeah
yep character level character level
attention makes sense but only if you
have some context-sensitive encoders but
in reality all sequence to sequence
models use some variety of
context-sensitive encoders so as long as
you're using a bi-directional rmn or
convolution or the self attention thing
with positional embeddings you should be
okay and there's actually a lot of work
that is used attention over characters
and given very competitive results so it
does okay if not all I'll finish up here
and I'm happy to answer individual
questions